This image demonstrates how information, material,
and goods flow up and down the supply chain process.
Goods flow downstream from the supplier,
and their supplier's supplier, to the manufacturer.
Manufacturers ship items directly to consumers,
or to wholesalers or retailers.
Retailers, in turn, sell directly to consumers.
While it may seem that cutting out the retailer
and wholesaler would reduce steps,
there may be additional transportation costs
and other factors that cause supply chains
to use wholesalers, distributors, and retailers.
Information flows both upstream and downstream.
Communication from the retailer to the manufacturer
enables a more efficient supply chain.
When products are defective or returned,
they flow upstream as reverse goods flow
from the consumer back through the retailer,
potentially for the manufacturer rework or dispose of.
This graphic also shows internal coordination
between the distributor and retailer,
which are both operated by organization X.